---
title: "CSM6120 Lecture 1 - What is AI"
date: 2020-09-28T15:00:00+0000
categories: [Lecture Notes]
tags: [CSM6120]
---

Read annotated version of slides

Sessions

* 3/4 Monday
* 11/12 Tuesday
* 2/3 Thursday practical
  * Where needed

## Assessment

* Report/Presentations
  * handout 5th oct
  * Due
    * Report - 3rd nov
    * Poster - 6th Nov
    * Presentation - 11th Nov
  * Feedback - 27 Nov
* Essay 
  * handout - 9th Nov
  * Hand in - 7th Dec
  * Feedback - 13th Jan
  
## What is AI

* Games
* Fiction
* Robotics
* Applications

D. L. Parnas (2017): The real risks of artificial intelligence.
ACM 60(10):27–31 Remarkably, those who use the term “artificial intelligence” have not defined that term.
I first heard the term more than 50 years ago and have yet to hear a scientific definition.
Even now, some AI experts say that defining AI is a difficult (and important) question—one that they are working on.
“Artificial intelligence” remains a buzzword, a word that many think they understand but nobody can define.

| humanly| rationally||
|:---|:---:|---:|
|Acting humanly | Acting Rationally|acting|
|(build machines that do thinks like people do)|(design of rational agents)||
|thinking humanly|thinking rationally|Thinking|
|(cognitive modelling)|(cognitive modelling)|

## Related and Relevant Fields

* philosophy
  * logic, mind-body problem, knowledge and action
* mathematics
  * logic, computability, probability
* economics
  * decision making, planning
* neuroscience
  * natural information processing•
* psychology
  * theory of thinking and acting
* computer engineering
  * efficient hardware platforms
* control theory and cybernetics
  * theory of self-controlled systems
* linguistics

## Some AI History

* W. S. McCulloch and W. Pitts (1943): A logical calculus of the   ideas immanent in nervous activity.The Bulletin of Mathematical Biophysics5(4):115–133.
* D. O. Hebb (1949):The Organization of Behavior.
* A. M. Turing (1950): Computing machinery and intelligence.Mind59(236):433–460.
* 1956: Dartmouth workshop (organised by J. McCarthy with the help of M.Minsky and C. Shannon among others)
* H. Simon (1957):Models of Man:  Social and Rational.‘There are now in the world machines that think, that learn and that create. [. . . ] in a visible future the range of problems they can handle will be coextensive with the range to which the human mind has been applied'
* Report of the Automatic Language Processing Advisory Committee (ALPAC1966):‘there has been no machine translation of general scientific text, and none is in immediate prospects.

## A Brief History of AI (mostly according to Russell/Norvig)

* 1943–1955: Gestation of AI
* 1956: Birth of AI
* 1952–1969: Great Expectations
* 1966–1973: A Dose of Reality
* 1969–1979: Knowledge-Based Systems
* since 1980 AI becomes an Industry
* since 1986 (First) Return of Neural Networks
* since 1987 AI Adopts Scientific Method
* since 1995 Emergence of Intelligent Agents
* since 2000 Deep Learning (Second Return of Neural Networks)
* since 2001 Availability of Very Large Data Sets

## Weak vs Strong

* Weak
  * AI performing a relatively narrow task, restricted to a clearly defined scenario.
  * tic tac toe or driving a car
  * Not Controversial
  * Not General
  * Not Self conscious
* Strong
  * artificial general intelligence - being able to perform any (intellectual) task as well as a human
  * ‘consciousness’:The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds.
  * Both is controversial.
